---
layout: posts
title: "Unit 9: Inheritance"
categories: apcsa
---
Homework submitted as a team.<br>
<h6><b>9.1 Creating Superclasses and Subclasses</b></h6>
In Java, class attributes and methods can be "inherited" by other classes. A "superclass" is the parent class, or the class being inherited from. The "subclass" is the child class, or the class inheriting something from another class.
<h6><b>9.2 Writing Constructors for Subclasses</b></h6>
A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects (i.e. they are called when the object is created). The constructor's name must match the name of the class it is attributed to. Also, all classes have constructors by default—it is just that if you do not personally define it, you cannot define the object attributes.
<h6><b>9.3 Overriding Methods</b></h6>
To override a method is to declare a method in the subclass where such a method already exists in the parent class. Listed <a href="https://www.w3schools.in/java/method-overriding" target="_blank"><u>h</u>ere</a> are some important rules when it comes to overriding methods. Note that methods can only be overwritten if they can be inherited.
<h6><b>9.4 super Keyword</b></h6>
A subclass can call a constructor defined by its superclass with the "super" keyword as shown:<br>
super(parameters);<br>
Super() must be the first statement executed inside a subclass constructor.
<h6><b>9.5 Creating References Using Inheritance Hierarchies</b></h6>
Often, creating objects looks something like this: Student firstStudent = new Student();<br>
where "Student" is both the reference type, and object type. However, the object and reference type can be different, like this: Person firstStudent = new Student();<br>
where "Person" is the reference type, and "Student" is the object type. The reference type of an object variable can be declared with a superclass (parent class), and instantiated with a subclass (child class). In the aforementioned example, the reference type "Person" may have come with a superclass, whereas the Student object was instantiated in the Student subclass.
<h6><b>9.6 Polymorphism</b></h6>
Polymorphism is the capability of a method to do different things depending on the object it is acting upon (Refer back to 9.3 and 9.5).
<h6><b>9.7 Object Superclass</b></h6>
Java classes form a "hierarchy" where each subclass can access all public methods of a parent class. At the top of this hierarchy is the Object class, which is built into the Java language. Through inheritance, all other classes can use methods from the Object superclass.