---
layout: posts
title: "Unit 5: Writing Classes"
categories: apcsa
---
U5 <a href="https://github.com/wangzi190/projectc190/blob/master/_notebooks/2022-11-27-apcsa-unit-5.ipynb" target="_blank"><u>H</u>omework</a><br>
<h6><b>5.1 Anatomy of a Class</b></h6>
Classes and objects are abstract data types in object-oriented programming languages. Objects are an "instance" of a class, and both classes and objects may have methods or attributes.
<h6><b>5.2 Constructors</b></h6>
Class constructors are "blueprints" for creating an object. You can use a constructor to instantiate an object with certain attributes or methods.
<h6><b>5.3 Documentation with Comments</b></h6>
Java comment syntax goes as follows<br>
Single line comment in --> // comment here<br>
Multiple line comment --> /* comment here */<br>
Documentation comment --> /** comment here */
<h6><b>5.4 Accessor Methods</b></h6>
Accessor methods --> used to access variables. For example, you can access a private/restricted access variable by writing a method within the class or object the private variable is attributed to which returns the method of the private variable, thereby making the private variable accessible via that method.
<h6><b>5.5 Mutator Methods</b></h6>
Mutator methods --> used to set or reset variables.
<h6><b>5.6 Writing Methods</b></h6>
A method is a block of code that only runs when it is called (so, not necessarily when the program is run). To write a method, you initialize as such: static void method(parameters) {code here}. Honestly just check out <a href="https://www.w3schools.com/java/java_methods.asp" target="_blank"><u>t</u>his</a> link holy shit why am I writing notes about all this
<h6><b>5.7 Static Variables and Methods</b></h6>
Static variables are variables whose values stay "static" (don't change). Static methods are methods that belong to a class rather than an instance of a class.
<h6><b>5.8 Scope and Access</b></h6>
Variable scope refers to the points in the program where the varriable is accessible. For example, variables declared inside a method and therefore have a method-level scope cannot be accessed from outside the method.
<h6><b>5.9 this Keyword</b></h6>
The this keyword refers to the current object in a method or constructor. It is used so that programmers can tell the difference between class attributes and parameters with the same names.
<h6><b>5.10 Ethical and Social Implications of Computing Systems</b></h6>
Ethical issues in computing include cyber-crime such as hacking/otherwise breaching privacy of companies, workers, and users. A recent example of ethical violations in computing is the creation of AI image generators that train with copyrighted artists' work without permission, essentially ripping off other peoples' work for free (I'm sure other people have dissected this issue better than me but yeah).
<br>