---
layout: posts
title: "Unit 7: ArrayList"
categories: apcsa
---
Homework submitted as a team.<br>
<h6><b>7.1 Introduction to ArrayList</b></h6>
The ArrayList class is a resizable array. The key difference between an "array" (which is built into the Java programming language) and an ArrayList (which is found in the java.util package) is that an array is fixed-size, whereas an ArrayList is not.
<h6><b>7.2 ArrayList Methods</b></h6>
<a href="https://www.w3schools.com/java/java_arraylist.asp" target="_blank"><u>T</u>his</a> webpage lists the syntax for ArrayList methods such as add, get, set, remove, and clear.
<h6><b>7.3 Traversing ArrayLists</b></h6>
To traverse an ArrayList, you could use the .size() and .get() ArrayList methods as follows:<br>
for (int i = 0; i < arrayList.size(); i++) {
    System.out.println(arrayList.get(i));
}<br>
Notice how similar this is to traversing an array.<br>
<h6><b>7.4 Developing Algorithms Using ArrayLists</b></h6>
ArrayLists are basically dynamic arrays. When writing a program where it's necessary to continually update the values in an array, you should use an ArrayList.
<h6><b>7.5-7.6 Searching and Sorting</b></h6>
Be able to differentiate ArrayList methods from array methods when writing searching and sorting algorithms for ArrayLists (i.e. don't get them mixed up!). For example, .get() is used to get an element from an ArrayList, but arrayName[x] is used to get an element from an array.
<h6><b>7.7 Ethical Issues Around Data Collection</b></h6>
Many applications collect user data as a way to "improve user experience." For example, many social networking apps are notorious for collecting data on user activity—such as how long they spend on the application, and what type of content they interact with. This, however, means ethical issues around data collection arises. What data should or should not be collected? How should collected data be used? Is the data secure (What if it gets compromised, and used in ways not intended by developers)?