---
layout: posts
title: June 2024
categories: journal
---
At the beginning of June I tried to commit to going to the library daily to read and code, only for it to get so hot I stopped feeling up to the roughly half hour walk there. It didn't help that my room started getting uncomfortably warm too.
<br><br>
As it was no longer appropriate to be in the post-school slump that characterized the month of May, I also tried, more sucessfully, to focus on doing what's meaningful to me (instead of going about my days somewhat aimlessly). I made some art I'm happy with, namely an MS Paint rendition of <i>La Scapigliata</i>, and a new pagedoll for my site. I also finished reading <i>Existential Physics</i>, started reading <i>The Age of Surveillance Capitalism</i> (a book I've been wanting to read for <i>months</i>), did a few Nand2Tetris projects, and started practicing to get my driver's license. At some point I even went to see a baseball game, so that was pretty cool too.
<br><br>
Nearing the end of the month, I set my phone to grayscale indefinitely, and deactivated all my social media. I haven't really seen the point of using it for a while now, so this was a long time coming. Since I mostly like to log into social media to see what other people are up to, I figure if I want to keep up with friends there are much better ways to do it.
<br><br>
Also, I'm now realizing that I didn't mention anything about finals week in my April or May posts, so I guess I'll tack it in now. Anyways, going in to take a few exams during finals was a lot less stressful for me than the week before, when I had several big projects due around the same time. I did generally pretty good both weeks though, and best of all I got a 100% on my discrete math final : D It still astonishes me that I managed to pull that off, especially since I didn't feel like I reviewed that much. I guess not having to cram was a good sign; studying consistently seriously goes a long way. I'm glad to have had a pretty solid first year (academically, anyway) to give myself more confidence in my abilities from this point onward.
<br><br>
To get back onto the original topic of the post, I recall feeling that day-to-day life in June (and summer so far in general) felt inexplicably like it was missing something. Though I like to say that being at school was much better, I'm honestly not sure it was. I probably should have cared more about things like socializing or decorating my room, instead of just studying. And as for right now, I should probably be online less :')