---
layout: posts
title: April 2024
categories: journal
---
The school year is finally over. I'm sitting in my empty dorm room as I write this.

April was easily my worst month yet, psychologically speaking. I felt hazy and pessimistic on an almost daily basis. I put myself under immense pressure, and, leading up to every deadline, kept insisting to myself that I'd screw up (To put it lightly and briefly). It was an exhausting way to live, and looking back, I'm not sure why I felt the need to impose all that on myself. Maybe it's the general dissatisfaction with the routines of my everyday life speaking, but I'm not even remotely as satisfied as I thought I'd be with my good grades.

I'm still not so sure what I want to do with my summer, aside from generally trying to become a more functional adult, and my usual computers stuff. I've never felt the need to talk about this on here until recently, but I often can't help but wonder if there's more to life than this. I feel like I forget <i>I actually like what I'm studying</i> too often for my own comfort, at least in the past month. I even started feeling sick of math as finals approached.

Amidst the stress, I still managed to sit down and write a few proofs for a textbook I've been side-eyeing for a while (Sipser's Theory of Computation, which I've probably mentioned on my NC profile), and honestly really liked it. I guess I mostly need to stop burdening myself with my own expectations. It's definitely been discouraging me from drawing, too, which is sad to see. I used to fill sketchbook after sketchbook when I was younger, but in the past few years or so, even finishing a single piece is a pain.

I'm not exactly sure how to "fix" this, but hopefully it'll help not to have as many obligations in the summer. I figure it'd feel worse to end 2024 still feeling like this, so until then, I'll do my best to change things.