---
layout: posts
title: March 2024
categories: journal
caturl: "/blog/journal.html"
---
There isn't much that went on this month that I haven't mentioned previously. School has continued to be busy, though thankfully not in a dull or overwhelming way, and the class I'm taking that's informally described by some as "discrete math on crack" is still my most favorite. And I'm still, to my own disbelief, doing great in the class.

I spent the first week of March at home doing pretty much nothing, and once I got back to school, the two weeks that followed were a flurry of rigorous assignments and exams. By the time the end of the month came around, well, let's just say I was less enthused by studying than usual.

I've also continued playing Stardew Valley, though in intermittent bouts of procrastination. About two weeks ago, I started reading Franz Kafka's <i>The Trial</i>, from which I was reminded that fictional narrative is a much smoother read than textbooks or even popular science books (I felt a little better about my purported lack of reading after that). And yesterday, I spent the afternoon finishing up <i>Algorithms to Live By</i>, the book I'd started in January. I liked it a lot; I found the game theory chapter near the end really interesting (and lost my shit when they quoted Noam Nisan).

Ideally, next month I'd draw more, finish my crochet project from January, and revisit neglected coding projects. Realistically though, I'm not sure I'll get around to much, because for the most part, I just want to end the semester well. I'll also have to figure out what to do with my summer.