---
layout: project-post
title: Closure
categories: projects
permalink: /projects/nand2tetris/closure
---
<!--Initial post date: 06.10.25-->
When I started Nand2Tetris, I was a 4th year high school student determined to understand more about how computers really worked, because I couldn't help but feel that what I'd already learned was information in significant isolation. Though I had been coding for long enough for it to feel fairly natural, everything in the realm of programming is so abstracted I couldn't clearly and concretely grasp how the code I wrote was being processed, and I wanted to change that. Though I'd dabbled in assembly language as well, it was not more than Just Another Thing I Knew, and the overall structure of a computer and where my current knowledge fits into the puzzle was completely arcane to me. So, Nand2Tetris was the course of my dreams at the time. Beginning from the most rudimentary circuits that make up a computer's hardware platform, it educates students about every layer of the computer in a brilliant, hands-on way, and I had a blast working on it (My best friend liked to call it "Hui cocaine", lmao). As you might know (or not, the dates on the projects aren't exactly accurate), I did a few of the projects in high school, and a few more in the summer after my first year of college, leaving off just at part 2 of the VM unit.

Now, though, I feel like if I were to continue, it'd merely be for completionist reasons. You see, Nand2Tetris teaches you computer concepts using its own simplified and very particular conventions. Don't get me wrong, I don't necessarily see this as a flaw of the course; its conventions still conceptually parallel commonly-used tools, languages, and hardware specifications used in the "real world", and I think it's a great learning tool. However, thanks to the rigorous pace of college computer science, I've realized that I am well able to grasp more complex and applicable material directly (e.g. x86 assembly, which I quickly picked up to a reasonable extent when I needed it), so I began seeing less and less of a point to continue Nand2Tetris. Moreover, the classes I'm taking next semester are closely related to the topics of later Nand2Tetris projects, and will certainly explore them in greater depth, so I'm not missing out on much anyway.

I guess there's no reason for me to be writing this note at all. Why bother justifying why I haven't finished a certain Coursera course to Internet strangers? Regardless, I still think it's better to give closure. I feel kind of disappointed in myself for having incomplete stuff strewn about on my projects page (but don't see myself revisiting Nand2Tetris for numerous reasons), so I suppose I'm stating this to feel more content and without guilt about going onto better things. And I mean, I technically did finish building the Hack computer, it'd just take significant hardware knowledge to operate it...

Ultimately, I'm happy with what I've done with Nand2Tetris, and I'm ready to consider it <i>done</i>. I hope a computer engineer out there has fun reading my project notes or something lol. And if you relate to my description of my earlier self, you might want to check out Nand2Tetris for yourself!

<a href="https://www.nand2tetris.org/course" target="_blank">https://www.nand2tetris.org/course</a>